my motivation is to create new things
when i create new things and i
see them working it's for me it's like
creating a baby welcome to 20 minute
leaders
just sit back relax and learn from the
leaders of today
it's a journey each one is different
unique inspiring
let's get started
[Music]
this episode is powered by jventures a
community driven vc fund in silicon
valley
in partnership with leumitech sponsored
by hippo insurance
opposed labs touring hillel at stanford
leap and in media partnership with ctec
let's talk about new homeowners and
contractors
meet jim carmel chief technology officer
of home connects
from his early days of programming he
was an entrepreneur and a software
company owner
he finished computer science bachelor's
degree in 1999
and since then he's participated in many
big projects for government offices
private sector companies and even sold
one of them to a huge software company
in the states
nowadays he's the head of r d department
at home connex a startup that was
founded in 2015
as an idea to help to develop the
low-tech construction and building
market
with great success they already have
thousands of users and most of the big
construction companies in israel are
working with them
welcome to 20 minute leaders how are you
today i'm good i'm very good very
excited about this show or
podcast um
waiting for i don't even know what it is
myself show podcast
whatever it is where are you calling
from i'm coming from jerusalem
originally we are living in holland now
i have four kids we have a big house
there
i'm very excited to work in my present
uh
business called homeconnects
we are developing and starting a new
new phase in property tax
and uh we are excited about it
we will speak about it later i hope and
let's see of course so hi ma are you
originally from jerusalem yeah i was
born in jerusalem
lived about
30 years in jerusalem and then i moved
to harada
it's near jerusalem near where was
very quiet and nice place they like it
very much
wonderful so today you're the cto of
home connex
yeah it's in property tech you're
working you're allowing
you know home buyers apartment buyers
from contractors
to much too much more easily and deal
with the whole system and and you'll
you'll elaborate much more in a second
on exactly what what
what value you provide to these new
apartment owners but before we get into
that tell me a little bit about your own
journey
uh your own you know upbringing and how
do you
how you got to take part in a role such
as the chief technology officer of a
startup
okay basically i was entrepreneur
from the beginning after after my
bachelor degree in
hadassah college i was i started my own
company
i started to do different projects for
different
clients including websites including
mobile apps when internet that
got to be what it is today we started to
make a very very unique
mobile projects for many many clients
including government offices and
when we were expanding i decided i
no longer want to work on many projects
for different clients i want to do
something for myself
and therefore i found hanov who is
the investor in our
project and we decided to tell me a
little bit about that
for a second okay i i don't want to do
a project for for a lot of other people
i want to do projects for myself
what was that you know it's a it's a
simple sentence but it says a lot
what what does that mean for you it
means
usually clients are not very friendly
they want uh they want several they have
specification you must do what
they say and you cannot decide if you
want to
move this differently or you want to go
different ways
you cannot decide whatever you want you
just need to
hold to their spec and do it as it is
and i had i have all the time many ideas
and things
running in my mind i want to do do
differently or do it
some other way so and
i was looking for one particular
idea that we had uh to
to get with it and to do it to move
forward
and develop it and then one day i
sat with and we spoke about this
opportunity that he is building many
houses for many
clients and they are looking for some
some simple way to communicate with
contractor with suppliers with the
with the bank with
everything that is everything that
includes about this buying your
apartment and
therefore we decided to do something
together and it was very successful and
very
nice combinations tell me a little bit
about the journey that
that you went through as you were just
entering this journey so you're
essentially creating a new company with
hanok and you're
solving what i understand is a pain
point that involves people that are
purchasing new apartments and the
communication with the contractors is
that is that right
yeah yeah we
what we basically tried to do is make
like
a kind of a bank account when i started
this project i
didn't know all the features that we
will have all the
options that we need to do in order to
make it very simple for apartment buyers
to to use this uh apple website
so it started as an idea we wanted to do
like
a bank account for for people
who will have all the documents they
need all the information they need about
payments about
uh about index about
what they need to choose and we had also
many
buyers from the united states and they
wanted all the time to
to to learn about what they can choose
which
kitchen they can choose with colors
floor flooring and doors
and so we started to to evolve this
up and then we gave them many many
options to
choose what they want and what they
dislike and if they want refund
so all these options came into like a
small bank account
and uh it was very helpful and very
useful for
for apartment buyers
and therefore as we go along with that
we
we added new features and as
basically the year went through now it's
like a giant monster
monster we have many suppliers connected
with us
and many companies with
payments options and different
many contractors in israel big
contractors are connected with us so
it's like now it's like really a big big
issue after
almost five years we succeeded to have
uh 15 000
15 000 apartment buyers in israel that's
not
a small small
amount in israel and
we wish we are aiming to get the 30 000
by the end of this year
i hope we won't be able to do it but
as you can see we are growing very fast
and it's very successful
so my journey is just
to solve all these small issues and how
to do
step by step many many things
um so now just to for the context so
you've been uh you so
you what i heard that you mentioned five
years in the making
and now is sort of when you're actually
not now is when you're seeing this
growth what how did you experience the
first
four years or the first few years when
there isn't growth and there aren't
clients and it's maybe even just you and
just really believing in this idea but
you know but
people aren't really biting on yet yeah
yeah yeah it was a very difficult
journey
and uh at first the first year the
second year we didn't have any clients
at all we didn't have
apartment buyers we didn't nobody used
this and there were
some some periods that we thought we
will close
our business and it will not be
successful but
we kept on going with very small uh
development team
and we started to add more and more
feature
it was difficult uh but we both were
very
sharp-minded about what we want and
eventually it was successful but i can
say it was not so easy and
i worked hours i walked
sometimes 12 and 14 and 60 hours a day
so that just to fix problems and to see
that everything is working well
and as we grow we
we are in we are
enlarging our development team and
now it's it's more calm but still
so what are some interesting lessons to
be learned here for young entrepreneurs
that are on their journey as well
whether they're in the technology side
or the business side but they are going
through a similar experience to what
you're going through
well sometimes you can believe in some
idea
and you can stick with it for years and
years and it will not be successful i
can say
i had some projects i did before i
thought it would be very successful and
it was a
big failure and i invested money
and sometimes
although you will believe it very hard
it will not be successful you must know
that
one out of 100 will be successful and
you must try in different ways sometimes
not the way that you thought from the
beginning will be successful
try to do it some differently or try to
change it as the
market changes uh so
you must be very dynamic about your
ideas
how do how you will uh make
that makes a lot of sense and going back
to
home connex so what what have you
learned now
that you have 15 000 apartment owners
and buyers working with your platform
are there any interesting you know
patterns or in the prop tech space then
you're saying like wow this this is
really cool i didn't think this is how
things are happening
you know five years ago
well something odd happened in this
in this growth um
at first uh at first all the contractors
in israel
and in general this market it's very low
tech they are using papers and fusses
and they are not very very
high-tech users or consumers
so i think we what we saw is that
as we are as we are
using this software and contractors are
getting more and more
uh high-tech we are giving them tools to
use
uh to communicate with customers through
apps for notifications through uh
different ways they can use and it makes
it
a lot easier for them and they
understand that
high techniques it's what they need to
do and not to stay with
with the folders and papers and
call customers to come to their offices
and they give them documents
now it's more easy and
what we saw is totally we can learn this
market to get
to know new things and
so that's actually oops
and so that's actually a really
interesting point because
you're talking about really educating a
market and that's one of the challenges
that we're talking about
here you have a you know you have two
set of marketing of the consumers that
are probably more
tech savvy and they're looking for the
solution but then you have the other
side of the marketplace which is the
contractors and they are
you know and they're they're not in the
high-tech scene and they're used to
working like you said with effects and
papers
so what what what methods did you use to
convince them
or to to work with them to educate
them that this is actually another
possible way of working and it might
actually
be more efficient
well actually we didn't do it
by marketing our own app
it's just like going through month two
years they
saw it working somewhere they're
listening to some other contractor
they they give you good recommendations
and they're
okay let's try anyway it's free for
contractors they can use it freely and
we are our business model it's not about
contractors it's about
people who buy apartments they will use
our app to buy some products and then we
will earn some money um
so it's actually it went from here to
for month to year and then
it's slowly many many and bigger and
bigger contractors heard about us and
they
they understand it so it can
can they can profit from
they can let go some employees if they
don't
need them anymore they don't need
someone who gets a crop
so so eventually it was easier for them
to use
to understand now what did you learn
about yourself
as over the last five years as your you
know
instead of working for clients you're
working for yourself and
what interesting things have you learned
about whether you know intrinsic
motivation
or or you know why you do what you do
well my motivation is to create new
things
when i create new things and i see them
working it's for me it's like
creating a baby um am
i understood that everything is possible
everything you cannot stop anywhere with
something people told you will tell you
it's not possible you need to
do like this and this this is how it
will be possible to do it
but i understood don't listen to anyone
anyone you just go your way and
try to solve problems not directly with
what everyone is thinking is good to do
but uh
as you you think you can do it and
uh it works in the end
and i think that you know one of the
things that i just love hearing on the
show over and over again this idea that
your perseverance really does pay off it
may not pay off in the exact
time that you expect it to but it but
but if you persevere enough then
then it will and and five years later
and you have 15 000 apartment owners
on your platform and you are and you're
expected to grow a hundred a hundred
percent beyond that
this next year which is a you know that
is just amazing
hey man i really want to thank you for
for coming for the to the show i know
that you're very busy but
i do have three last questions for you
that are more fun and they're more about
you
are you ready for them all right
so it will start with your favorite
subject
in middle school or high school
well i don't remember much about
middle school i can tell you about high
school i was always attracted to some
technical and and
some math and i learned chemistry in my
latest years in school it was about
physics
chemistry and uh amazing and who is you
want to be a role model or somebody that
inspires you
in some way
well i think it will be my mother
because she's she's not without
anymore but i think she taught me so
much and i
i learned from her that if you want to
achieve someone you
you must keep pushing and you will get
it in the end
amazing and what are three words
that you would use to describe yourself
wow three words okay
let's see um first of all
i'm i'm entrepreneur with all my
my heart and with everything i do also
in my private
life it will be something that i need to
accomplish and some things i need to
to create a second will be
what type of music music it's my second
favorite
subject i was dj once before
pop rock almost everything i like
everything
um
third thing
i'm very quiet guy
i don't like to speak in public i don't
like to
do podcasts from some interviews
and i hope that i had a lot of fun and i
hope that
that you had a little bit of fun and and
i learned a lot and i
i really appreciate you taking the time
to be here
and i i like the calmness i like the
serenity
that you that you portray and i think
that it's a you know
if i'm thinking about culture and if i'm
thinking about leadership
that's one of the one one aspect of
leadership that
you know we don't you don't see often
and so i really appreciate that
and stay safe and stay healthy good luck
with with home connects from jerusalem
sounds like it's really really great
thank you
[Music]
you